Darling Drusilla...
I have existed from
the morning of the world
and I shall exist until the last star
falls from the heavens.
Although I have taken
the form of Gaius Caligula,
I am all men
as I am no man and so...
I am a god.
- What's it like with Marcellus?
- What's what like?
He's so fat!
He's disgusting.
He's not.
He's only large.
But tiny where it counts.
How do you know?
I saw him at the baths.
Poor... poor Drusilla.
You are vile.
- Hold!
- Messenger for the prince!
- Identify yourself!
- Macro.
- Password?
- Justice.
Prince?
Forgive me, prince.
The Emperor commands you
to wait upon him.
What does he want?
A last look at you perhaps.
He is 77.
May he live forever.
How is Ennia?
My wife lives only for the day
she can see you again, prince.
Wait outside.
What does all this mean?
Take care, Little Boots.
- Pray to Isis for me.
- I'll follow you as soon as I can.
I hate coming back here, Macro.
He's planning something.
You've nothing to fear.
I command the Praetorian guards.
With Tiberius, there's
always something to fear.
Be very careful of Nerva.
They say he can even tell
what you're thinking.
Nerva!
- Prince!
- Dear friend!
Ten years is a long time
for the Emperor to be hidden away.
I should feel a great deal happier
if he was back in Rome where he belongs.
Tell me, how is the Emperor?
Old, like me.
I mean, how is his mood?
Like the weather.
But the weather's good today.
Changeable.
I've heard that during the last month,
seven of my colleagues in the senate
have been put to death.
For treason.
Nine to be exact.
Five of them cheated.
They killed themselves.
That wasn't playing fair.
Don't you agree, Nerva?
They were all good men.
If they were all good men, how could
their beloved Emperor find them guilty?
You have a gift for logic, prince.
Caligula!
- Beloved grandfather.
- Do your dance, boy.
- My dance?
- Yes.
The one that you delighted the army with
when your father made you its mascot.
Come on...
Little Boots.
I've forgotten it, lord.
Oh, dance for me.
Delight me.
Dance!
My little fishies.
Fishies.
Alright, my little fishies!
Come in!
All of you!
Stop that!
Out, little fishies!
You've had enough for today!
- Caligula!
- Yes, my lord?
Why do you say such monstrous
things about me at Rome?
- I hear you often pray for my death.
- I don't, lord, ever.
You do not?
By heavens, Caesar, I swear I do not.
You do not in...
in public.
Never, lord.
Remember this.
That I have let you lived...
so far.
My little fishies love me.
Innocents, you see.
I protect their innocence.
It is the least I can do...
for it is a foul world.
Away now!
Nerva is scowling at us.
Help me, Nerva.
Help me transform this young barbarian
into a Roman Caesar.
There have been three Roman Caesars:
Julius, Augustus and yourself.
- Which do you want him to be?
- Best.
That would be your father, Augustus.
You see, Caligula,
I'm insulted to my face.
Nerva, dear friend,
watch out for Macro when I'm dead.
I know.
- He hates me...
- Because you are wise.
Because you are good.
So when I'm gone,
watch out for Macro.
I've taken my precautions, Caesar.
What might they be?
Heaven help Rome!
For I'm gone.
I am old.
Yes, lord, but you will live forever.
All my family are dead but you,
child Gemellus and that...
Claudius, that uncle.
The others struck down by fate.
And it is fate, Little Boots,
that rules us,
not any god.
You are a god, lord.
No, I'm not!
Not even when I'm dead.
Julius Caesar and Augustus Caesar,
they are gods.
So say the Senate and so
the people prefer to believe.
Such myth they use.
Little Boots,
- just look at you.
- Yes, Caesar?
I am mercy.
A viper...
in Rome's bosom.
Uncle!
Caligula!
Do you think this boy have been drinking?
- I think he has, Caesar.
- So do I. Macro.
- Yes, lord?
- Bring him more wine.
And waste none.
Remove your bootlaces.
And what do they say of me at Rome?
Oh, well, they need you, lord,
and they miss you.
Most of my life I have given
to the Roman people.
I have fought.
I have given all.
Aren't they lovely?
Yes, lord.
The satyrs are from Illyria.
And... uh...
This nymph...
is from...
Where are you from?
Britain, lord.
Britain.
- Speaking statues.
- Yes, yes.
And they do more than speak.
They do...
You prefer nymphs to satyrs?
I like both, lord.
One needs both, yes.
To keep healthy.
Rome is a republic
and you and I are playing citizens.
More confection!
That's it.
That's the best of my stallions.
Serve the state, Caligula,
although the people in it
are wicked beasts.
- But they love you, lord.
- Oh, no!
No.
They fear me.
And that is much better.
I have no choice, you see.
No choice.
No choice?
All I wanted was private life.
I did not truly want
to become Emperor,
but I had to.
Had to?
If someone else had become Emperor,
I would have been killed.
As you will be.
Will be?
Will be gra... gr...
Will be, grandfather?
Would be, if you were not my heir.
When Rome was just a city
and we were just citizens,
known to one another.
Do you see?
My, we were frugal, good,
disciplined and dignified.
The Romans I rule
are not what they were.
They lust...
they lust for power and pleasure.
Money... the wives of other men...
Oh, yes, I am a true moralist.
And stern as any Cato.
Fate chose me to govern swine.
In my old age
I am become a swine-herd.
You faithless boy
has drunk enough wine.
I think he's drunk enough, lord.
So do I.
Now he is happy.
Homer! You would not know that?
You were educated in army camps only.
You will know enough to be a swine-herd.
Caesar, the Senate sends
these documents for your signature.
Of course.
The revised list of candidates
for the Equestrian Order.
I, Tiberius Caesar, command in the name
of the Senate and the people...
of Rome.
Tax assessment, for Asia Minor,
Brescia and Gaul.
I, Tiberius Caesar, command in the name
of the Senate and the people of Rome.
Senator guilty of treason.
Every senator believes himself
to be a potential Caesar,
therefore every senator
is guilty of treason.
In thought, if not in deed.
The Senate is the natural enemy
of any Caesar, Little Boots.
Remember that.
Traitors. Look at them.
Traitors.
They offered to prove any law I made
before I made it.
I said: "What if I go mad?
What then?"
No answer.
They were born to be slaves,
Germanicus, never forget that.
I'm not Germanicus, lord.
I'm his son, Caligula.
Yes. And your friend is Macro.
- He serves you and only you, lord.
- And his wife is your friend, too.
Is she friendly in bed?
We must ask Macro that, lord.
She seems friendly.
And your sister, Drusilla...
My sister is my sister, lord.
I know everything
that is said and done.
And thought.
The setting sun
and the rising moon.
Gemellus!
Lovely boy.
And too young to betray me.
Well, perhaps not too young.
Yes. Kiss your old grandfather.
Yes, my last grandson.
I am your grandson, too, Caesar.
By adoption.
This is the last flesh of my flesh.
Poor boy.
What's to become of you?
He's like a brother to me, lord.
Brother? You know what a brother
is in our family?
Brother kills a brother...
who's killed his father
who's killed his son.
Fate. Drink, Caligula.
After you, dear brother.
Poor boy.
When I am gone...
Caligula will kill you.
And then someone will kill Caligula.
Unless...
unless he is dead, before I am.
You are looking not well at all!
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name
of the Senate and the people of Rome.
A brother kills a brother...
who kills his father...
who kills his son...
Fate...
And then someone must kill Caligula...
He's going to kill me.
You're safe, you're with me.
He's going to kill us.
Just the way he killed
our father, our mother...
and our brothers.
I am not going to die.
You won't.
You're his heir.
There is no one else.
Yes, there is.
There's Gemellus...
and Claudius.
Gemellus is too young,
Claudius is an idiot
and Tiberius is old.
You will be Emperor. Soon.
And you will be my queen.
You can't marry your sister.
- You can in Egypt.
- But we're in Rome
and you're already promised.
I know, to Ennia...
It's only a bird.
Prince?
What is it?
My wife.
Ennia!
Now you are a man, Caligula.
What are you going to do?
You must be the master
of your own destiny.
Take it... with both hands.
Cretins!
Why did you permit him to do it?
Bind his wrists.
Bind his wrists!
You must not go,
you must not leave me.
You're my friend, my only friend.
I've lived too long, Tiberius,
I hate my life.
Leave us!
Both of you!
The man to choose
the hour of his own death
is the closest he will ever
come to tricking fate.
And fate decrees that when you die,
Macro will kill me.
I'll arrest him
and have him executed.
You can't, he controls you.
Anyway, even with Macro dead,
how could I go on living
with this reptile?
You will respect my friend always,
won't you, reptile?
I've always respected him, lord.
- You hear?
- Tiberius, you were wise once.
Don't taunt me. I am old.
I watched you grow into a monster.
One by one, I've seen
you murder your family,
your friends,
the noblest men in Rome.
- That is treason.
- No, it's the truth.
I am and always have been
surrounded by enemies.
In my own family...
in the Senate...
You're cruel!
No, honest. Old men
can sometimes see the future.
So, from evils past
and evils yet to come,
I now choose to escape.
So these are your precautions, Nerva?
- Nerva, what's it like?
- Warm, no pain...
just drifting away.
- Do you see her?
- Who?
The goddess, Isis.
So you're one of those who believe...
Do you see her?
- No.
- Are you sure?
You're almost dead. What's it like?
What's happening to you now?
Nothing.
You're lying.
You can see her.
I know you can. What is she like?
No...
nothing at all...
just...
sleep...
Liar!
Since Nerva died, Tiberius
has been half paralyzed.
- They say he's close to death.
- Tiberius dies, be worse for us.
- You love the bastard.
- Take that back!
Prince...
the physician Charicles.
How is the Emperor?
How long will he last?
Well, it could happen any moment,
but with care
he might last a year or so.
I can smell death...
but whose?
Don't worry.
He can do nothing without me.
So these poor unfortunate
creatures thought...
and where are they?
No, Macro.
He's planning something.
You'll be Emperor, soon.
You swear.
I sw...
I swear.
Leave.
Everyone leave.
Tiberius.
Caligula?
Lord.
Give me my ring.
No.
Yes.
You...
do not...
dare!
Prince.
You do not dare!
Hail, Caesar.
I'll get everyone assembled in the hall.
For the announcement.
Gemellus?
Gemellus!
Hail, Caesar.
Gemellus...
we are alone.
We must love each other.
Rest, Tiberius Caesar.
Hail, Caligula Caesar.
It's just like the dream.
It's only his mask.
You are Caesar now.
Caesar.
Caesar, Emperor of Rome,
lord of the world.
Lord of the world...
I like this dream.
At the...
At the insistence of the Senate
and the people of Rome...
I accept...
humbly...
the highest office
of our great republic.
Our great republic!
Where's the onion?
Give me the onion.
When our beloved Tiberius was dying...
- To the Tiber with Tiberius!
- Yes!
- Throw him in the river!
Tiberius! Throw him!
Throw him to the dark!
Today we begin a new era.
I grant a general amnesty.
Hail!
Caesar! Caesar!
Silence!
Great Caesar is not finished.
As my fellow consul,
the Senate and the people of Rome...
have wisely chosen
my learned uncle Claudius.
Hail, Claudius!
Take your place
beside me, Claudius.
Caesar Caligula...
Take your place...
I mean consul...
I herewith adopt
as my son and heir...
the prince Gemellus.
- Come forward, prince.
- Hail, Gemellus!
From this moment,
all official oaths will contain
the following phrase:
"I will value neither my life,
nor the lives of my children,
any more highly
than I do the Emperor..."
Hail! Hail! Hail!
"...and of his sister, Drusilla."
- Hail, Drusilla!
- Hail, Caligula!
We must be careful of him.
Oh, Claudius?
No, Gemellus.
Oh, yes... Gemellus.
Did you see their faces when I told them
they had to swear not only to me,
but to you?
They were appalled.
I do hope so.
But is it wise?
I can do...
anything I like...
to anyone.
Well, don't start with me.
Who would you suggest?
Get out! Out!
Who?
Why not start with Macro?
- Macro?
- Yes.
Before he controls you
as he controlled Tiberius.
Superb display, Macro, superb.
Fetch me Gemellus.
What? Here?
Yes, here. Now.
- Charicles.
- My lord?
Stand here.
I want a bonus for my guards.
But, Caesar,
that's not possible.
All things that happen
are possible, Longinus.
Make the impossible happen
and it would be possible. Logical?
How, Caesar?
The deficit, you see, is...
Look, how much is my purse?
Well, lord, that is as much
as you may require.
Oh, good.
Macro, would you stand over there?
Longinus, you here.
Yes, Caesar.
Gemellus, I want you to look
at these gentlemen very carefully.
Take your time and tell me...
who killed our beloved Tiberius?
Who killed Tiberius?
He did!
Macro!
Murderer.
Arrest him.
In honor of your
new commander, Chaerea...
ten gold pieces to every man.
Hail! Hail! Hail!
Chaerea, arrest Macro.
Guards, arrest Macro.
Don't you dare!
Forgive me, Caesar...
Chaerea.
Two senators beg to see you.
They have a dispute over land
and await your judgment.
Well, bring them in.
Bring them in.
I'm interested in all that is Rome,
even down to the length of the toga.
Come now.
Caesar, I must complain
about the bov...
Give me the documents.
- Guilty.
- Thank you, thank you.
Don't thank me.
Justice must always be impartial.
That is so, Chaerea.
Is it not?
Yes, Caesar.
You may go.
Ennia.
You look beautiful.
Is it good for growing hair?
We'll be married soon.
The divorce will only take a few days.
- I think we should move.
- Move?
Where?
Alexandria, say.
To Egypt?
Yeah.
What do you think?
I'd hate to leave Rome.
I mean, the Senate...
No, no, Ennia, I am Rome.
Wherever I am, Rome is.
And there is the Senate
and the people of Rome.
You do make me laugh
the way you say that.
- Ah, Longinus.
- Forgive us, Caesar.
Longinus, is it done?
The Senate has
sentenced him to death.
The commission.
Chaerea, I now officially appoint you
commander of my imperial guard.
But what about Macro?
What's happened? Where is he?
He has been arrested for treason.
That's impossible.
Caesar, you know
he worshipped you.
He made you.
- Nobody made me.
- I... I can't believe it.
What did he do?
Ennia...
I had to take my destiny
with my own hands.
Guards.
Chaerea, she's to be banished.
- I love you.
- To Gaul.
Lift!
I love you.
Caligula, how could you do it?
He was your friend.
He would've done
anything for you.
Don't send me away!
I love you!
Caligula!
Now at least she doesn't
have to get a divorce.
But you still have to find
a suitable wife.
No.
I'm going to marry you.
You can't, we're not Egyptians.
I know.
We are much more beautiful.
Rome is not Egypt.
And stop looking
at yourself like that.
- Let's go to Egypt then.
- You are a fool.
- Caesar cannot be a fool.
- But he's trying very hard.
Caesar cannot be a fool!
Little Boots, they'll
throw you in the Tiber
if you attempt to move
the government.
So, you are going to marry
a respectable Roman lady
of the senatorial class.
- No, I'm not.
- Yes, you are.
You've got to have an heir.
Who will kill me
when he grows up.
The priestesses of Isis are meeting
at my house tonight.
You want me
to marry one of them?
Yes.
No.
I wonder what I should wear.
When is the performance
for almighty Caesar?
Don't be disgusting.
But I'm being practical.
If I'm to chose a wife,
I want to see what I'm getting.
Logic.
Now that one looks
rather interesting.
Livia? She's taken.
She's to marry Proculus,
one of your officers.
I'll send him to Spain.
She's a virgin, very boring,
not your style.
That will be my wife.
Oh, no, not Caesonia.
You're impossible.
She's the most promiscuous
woman in Rome.
Perfect.
Caesonia's been divorced.
She's extravagant, always in debt.
I want her.
But not for a wife.
Send her to me now.
No, Little Boots,
I won't let you do it.
It wouldn't be wise.
Yes.
Such as the will of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
You're very convincing
as a priestess, Caesar.
And you...
as a sacrificial lamb, Caesonia.
I told Caesonia
that I would marry her.
Don't...
But only after she's born me a son.
How will you ever know it's yours?
Don't worry.
I've got her very well guarded.
Can you be sure one of the guards
will be the father?
They're all homosexuals
who've been castrated.
If only all Rome had just one neck!
Is that the officer
that Livia's going to marry?
Yes, Proculus.
Proculus.
- Longinus...
- Caesar?
You see this young officer
over here? Proculus?
Caligula Caesar, Emperor of Rome.
- Hail.
- Hail!
And the lady Drusilla
and the lady Caesonia.
- Hail.
- Hail!
- Are we late?
- No, Caesar.
Do forgive us.
Was the ceremony beautiful?
The augury is good?
Yes, Caesar.
Splendid.
Come on, come on.
You are very gracious to come.
You are a Roman hero.
Caesar.
I shall now bestow...
the special blessings
of almighty Caesar...
upon this...
happy union.
Which way is the sacred
marriage bed?
Ah, the kitchen.
Well, this will have to do.
See you later.
Little Boots.
I thought you didn't like virgins.
I've never known any.
That is correct, Caesonia?
And now for Caesar's wedding gift.
What a delicious bride.
Take off that robe.
Splendid.
Is she really a virgin, Proculus?
Yes, Caesar.
One can never be quite sure.
Open your eyes, Livia.
Lucky girl.
To lose ones virginity...
to a direct descendant
of the goddess Venus.
I...
Caligula Caesar...
command...
Open your eyes, Proculus.
...command in the
name of the Senate...
Open them!
...the Senate...
and the people of...
Rome!
She really was a virgin.
Are you?
Well? Are you?
- No, Caesar.
- No?
Well, Isis won't like that.
One law for woman, one for man.
That's not fair.
Come on, off with your clothes.
Splendid.
I like your nice,
bushy hair, Proculus.
No, Caesar, I beg you.
So sit up!
I think you were lying to me.
You're a virgin, too.
I...
Caligula Caesar...
command...
in the name of the Senate...
Open your eyes, Livia.
...and the people of...
Rome!
You see how I've exhausted myself
in order to make your wedding holy.
My blessings to you both.
Gemellus!
Caligula!
Jupiter loves me!
Drusilla!
- He's trying to kill me.
- Who, Little Boots?
Gemellus.
I saw him. He ran away.
He wants me dead.
Now... there, Little Boots.
Now you'll be alright.
There...
Hail, Caesar!
All hail Caesar's
beautiful horse, Incitatus.
Hail the most honorable Incitatus.
Hail, Incitatus!
There's Gemellus over there.
Watch him.
Chuck, chuck, dear uncle,
chuck, chuck.
I want your honest advice.
Should I make myself king of Rome?
King?
But this is a republic, isn't it?
Very well, then.
I shall make myself
king of the republic.
But you're already greater
than any king, Caesar.
I am a god.
Or at least I will be when I'm dead.
Gemellus, try one of these morels.
- What's that smell?
- What smell, Caesar?
What have you been taking?
Just a medicine.
To ward off the fever.
Did you give him
medicine for the fever?
- Yes or no?
- No, no.
Gemellus, are you accusing
your sovereign of being a poisoner?
But I never accused you, Caesar.
You took an antidote
before coming to my table.
Which is tantamount
to accusing me of poisoning you.
That is logic, is it not?
Caligula!
Chaerea...
arrest Gemellus...
for treason.
Guards, take him away.
No! No, please!
No!
As if there ever could be
an antidote against Caesar.
Drusilla...
why are you so concerned for him?
I'm not concerned for him,
- but for you.
- He knows about Tiberius.
- He's a threat to me.
- He's not.
He's not even your heir.
Caesonia now carries your child.
Gemellus will die.
You amateur!
Amateur?
And they weren't even poisoned.
Caesar?
Well done.
Thank you.
What will you do to her?
What she said was treason.
I decide what is treason, not you.
Dance!
- Dance?
- Yes.
And what about your son?
Show Incitatus your new dance.
My son...
he will dance with you.
Music!
You are... beautiful...
Drusilla...
beautiful...
We are alone...
Alone..
Drusil...
- He's going to kill me.
- No.
He can't kill me.
- The fever must break soon.
- He's going to kill me.
- What if it doesn't?
He's going to kill me.
Drusilla...
He's going to kill...
me.
Drusilla...
I love you.
Where's my sister?
She's coming.
I'm here, Little Boots.
Drusilla...
- I'm dying.
- You are not.
I must...
make my will.
Don't talk, sleep.
Longinus...
I want Longinus.
Take my horse to his own bed.
He's a monster.
Even so, it's better that
he doesn't die this time.
- I don't see why.
- The people love him.
There could be war, revolutions,
civil chaos if he dies.
It looks as if he's going
to die anyway.
Longinus?
You called for me, Caesar?
My will.
Herewith to my beloved Drusilla...
the Roman Empire...
title...
of Augusta...
my little boots.
Little boo...
He's sleeping.
No, he's not.
Drusilla...
why do I get angry with you?
Why do we always argue?
You can't help it.
We'll never quarrel again.
Oh, yes, we will.
Don't let me die.
My lady, you must not touch him.
The fever is contagious.
Sleep, you're safe now.
Drusilla's here.
I offer my life,
if Jupiter will only spare
our beloved Emperor.
Jupiter accepts your offer.
Execute him.
The fever is breaking.
Do you hear that, Little Boots?
You're going to live.
Drusilla tells me that
I've been neglecting my work,
so I report for duty.
Your signature
and seal is required, lord.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name of the...
Senate... and...
the people of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar, command
in the name of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
Rome, Rome, Caesar, Caesar,
Rome, Rome, rubbish,
rubbish, rubbish!
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name
of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
No wonder life's so dull.
Yes, lord...
No, lord... but...
Let's see if Proculus
can liven things up for us.
Proculus.
Do you know that his wife
is expecting her first child?
We're not quite sure
who the father is.
Him or...
god.
Divine Caesar, please.
What have I done? Why am I here?
Treason.
I've always been loyal to you.
That is your treason.
You're an honest man, Proculus,
which means a bad Roman.
Therefore you're a traitor.
Logical, hmm?
Now you must die like Gemellus.
Like all those who failed Rome.
Now slowly, very slowly.
I want him to feel death.
I want him to smell death.
What does it feel like, Proculus?
Can you see the great goddess Isis?
What does she say?
Reptile.
Make a note of this.
I said slowly, you fool!
Lucky boy.
To've escaped me so easily.
Longinus...
reptile...
cut off those
and send them to Livia,
as a souvenir of their great love.
Caesar says, "Cut them off."
And now send the rest to Livia.
Curtain!
Child's head
has just appeared.
- Is he alive?
- Yes, Caesar.
My lords...
I'm now to be married to Caesonia,
the mother of my son,
Caligula Germanicus.
Caligula, Caesonia...
Ring, ring! Give me the ring!
You are now wife,
mother...
and empress of Rome.
It's a girl.
It is not a girl.
Did you not hear Caesar say?
I heard the voice of Caesar,
but your daughter did not.
I should've waited, shouldn't I?
There will be other children.
- Longinus.
- Caesar?
One month of free games
and a gold coin to every Roman
to celebrate the birth of my son.
My son...
Julia Drusilla!
Drusilla?
Drusilla.
- The fever.
- Drusilla.
The fever!
Drusilla.
I'm here...
it's your Little Boots.
It's your Little Boots.
Do something.
I am doing everything
I... I can, Caesar.
I swear. But the fever
must take its course.
Great Isis, save her.
Take me.
Caesar begs you, o mighty goddess.
Caesar...
Drusilla?
Get out! Get out!
Drusilla.
Almighty mother...
You...
I begged you...
Caesar begged you...
No!
We, Gaius Caesar Caligula,
do decree one month
of public mourning
for our beloved sister, Drusilla.
During which time
anyone who laughs,
baths, dines with
his parents or children,
or has intercourse
will be sentenced to death.
Such as the will of the Senate
and the people of Rome.
Hello.
Come on, darling.
Caligula has let go.
Nestor restores the imperial heirs.
The slaves of Rome.
The people.
The army.
The tribunes of the people.
The Senate.
And great and supreme...
the Emperor.
Hail.
And I am...
the lady Drusilla,
his sister.
Let's make love once again,
brother nestor.
No! No!
Stop!
Another drunk. Come on.
Do you have any news of him?
According to one report,
he's gone to Egypt.
And according to the other reports?
Well...
to Greece...
another, to Persia...
to Carthage...
and another again, to Gaul.
And where do you think he is?
- He could be anywhere.
- No.
He's here in Rome.
He's testing us.
Get off!
I have existed from
the morning of the world,
and I shall exist until
the last star falls from the night.
Although I have taken
the form of Gaius Caligula,
I am all men as I am no man.
And therefore I am...
a god.
I shall wait for the unanimous
decision of the Senate, Claudius.
All those who say aye,
say "aye."
Aye.
Aye!
- Aye.
He's a god now.
The period of mourning
is now over!
He's mad!
Enjoy yourself.
Take care.
Now the fun begins.
But... are you going to
enjoy it as well?
I don't know.
Should we ask them?
Longinus.
Longinus, my financial wizard.
We have a question for you.
Who're the richest men in Rome?
Who?
Answer:
the pimps.
Question number two.
Who are the most lascivious sluts
in all of Rome?
Who?
Answer:
the senators' wives.
So, an imperial brothel.
A most logical way
to balance the state budget.
As you can see,
ladies and gentlemen,
we have gone to great expense
to bring you the finest flesh
in our empire.
Five gold pieces.
Only five gold pieces for each
and every twenty minutes.
And that's a bargain.
Look at them.
Aren't they beautiful?
The most lascivious ladies
of the Roman Empire
have come today to perform
their patriotic duties for all.
For a mere five gold pieces.
So give, that they will
remember you well.
Come on aboard
the imperial bordello
and you have your choice
of the finest flesh in the Empire.
Just five gold pieces for each
and every twenty minutes.
And that's a bargain because
most of the women here
are respectable, married ladies.
Senators' wives.
Whores of blameless reputation.
I'll have to work out
a special rate for you.
Greetings! Flavia, come!
Don't waste time.
Our senators' wives are not merely
beautiful like their husbands,
they are insatiable.
And for only five gold pieces,
to anyone of you.
To the likes of those
who summon you.
Take their wives, use them,
abuse them.
Do as you will with them.
They are yours.
Just yours for only five.
Five gold pieces.
Hairy nipples.
Senator Marcellus...
your wife will scare
our customers away.
Try hot walnuts.
Hey, you over there.
Don't stint yourselves.
The more that you give,
the more they will like it.
Come and enjoy the skills
perfected by our senators' ladies,
while their husbands
slept in the Senate.
Only five gold pieces.
Five.
Senators' wives...
all a blameless reputation.
He's making prostitutes
of all our wives and daughters.
Humiliated the Senate
and offended the army.
That's why the people love him.
Longinus, you're not having any fun.
Enjoy yourself.
What is your preference?
Everything and nothing, Caesar.
You can't have both
for the same price.
- He's provoking you.
- Only me?
He's mad, he doesn't know
what he's doing.
He knows what he's doing
perfectly well.
- Give him enough rope, perhaps...
- He'll hang us all.
We also have a few
very severe ladies here today.
You may punish them
or be punished by them.
Five gold pieces will buy you both.
Just five gold pieces.
Can't you stop plotting
for just a few moments?
Chaerea,
I hear you have a taste
for little boys.
- Is that not so?
- No, Caesar, big boys.
My soldiers.
- Are they ready?
- Yes, Caesar.
Perfect.
We sail for Britain!
He will not go again.
We're only a few hours
march from Rome.
And what new madness is this?
Mars tells me we will
enjoy a great victory.
- Ah, Chaerea.
- Caesar?
Are we prepared for the invasion?
Yes, Caesar...
only...
Only what?
- Where is Britain?
- Where?
There.
Yes, lord, there...
but... there is no enemy.
There is papyrus cane.
- Papyrus cane, divine Caesar?
- Yes, papyrus.
Don't be so stupid, Chaerea.
Order my army to attack
and destroy that papyrus.
Yes, lord.
After all, we must have some proof
that I have conquered Britain.
Go on!
Kill!
While all of you were
living safely here in Rome,
your beloved Emperor
was risking his life
to preserve and enlarge the Empire.
I've heard rumors
that the Senate doesn't believe
that I ever went to Britain.
No. No, lord.
But I did conquer Britain
and I have a hundred thousand
papyrus canes to prove it.
- Hail, Caligula Caesar!
- Hail, Caesar!
- Hail, Caligula the Conqueror!
- Hail! Hail! Hail!
Better be careful,
he's in a strange mood tonight.
Caligula...
they hate you now.
Let them hate me.
So long as they fear me.
They are senators and consuls.
They are important men.
So important that
they approve all I do?
They must be mad.
I don't know what else to do
to provoke them.
Great victory in Britain!
And now...
the bounties captured
during this great campaign.
Fish.
Smoult, herring and salmon.
Oysters...
and beautiful pink pearls.
From the blue seas
and silver rivers of Britain.
Gained from the green forests...
and golden ponds of Britain...
wild pheasants, lovesome geese.
Cowards.
Crawl! Crawl! Crawl!
I hate them!
Almighty Caesar says...
to balance the state budget
we shall confiscate
the entire estates...
of all those who have failed Rome.
Read out your list, Longinus.
Senators Galva...
Aponius...
Marcellus...
Antonius...
Cassius...
Chaerea...
They have failed me. Arrest them.
Lepidus...
Sextus and Octavius.
Guards, arrest them.
Almighty Caesar says...
finish your dinner.
Eat!
He must be done soon.
Watch Chaerea.
Why?
The omens are not good.
Be on your guard.
I think he intends to kill me.
What is amusing, Caesar?
Just a thought.
May I ask what thought?
Is it true that there's a conspiracy
against me, Longinus?
Well, lord... that is... I mean...
It seems there is a secret plot.
A plot is always a secret, if it's not
a secret, it's not a plot but a plan.
That is logical, is it not, Claudius?
Even a half-wit can know that
and you're a half-wit.
Half of me is, Caesar.
The situation's gone too far.
He has mocked the guards,
overruled the government
and insulted
the best families in Rome.
Yes, the Senate counts
for nothing anymore.
No one is safe from him.
He's a tyrant.
Then what can we do?
There's only one solution.
- If Caligula were to die...
- It could happen.
You need sleep.
I think I shall have to resign
myself to living forever.
I hope you do.
I am going bald.
No, you're not.
You've never been able
to face the facts, have you?
The facts?
Yes, my lord.
Can you?
I need some sleep.
I need you.
Are you ready?
Will you speak
your lying sister Isis?
Long have I wandered
in the land of men
in search of you, brother Osiris.
I have been killed
and cut in two bits.
You put my pieces together,
bringing back life...
with a kiss.
There goes our blood.
It doesn't matter.
It's only a show.
- I can't get it right.
- No, Caesar. Look, like that.
Hello, precious.
Have you been a good girl?
Don't you think she looks
beautiful in my costume?
- She's even wearing my little boots.
- Cause you like her power.
My little... boots.
She's serious.
Going to be dressed
like you today.
Password?
Scrotum.
So be it.
I'll...
live...
Guards!
Hail, Claudius Caesar!
- Hail, Claudius Caesar!
- Hail, Claudius!